---
layout: post
title: Gist
date: 2018-04-13 08-39-26
categories: blog
---

# GIST Planning

**G**oals - **I**deas - **S**teps-projects - **T**asks

## Goals
> "If you tell people where to go, but not how to get there, you'll be amazed the results" - George S. Patton.

Any modern army general will tell you - give the troops objectives and let them figure out ways to accomplish them (the principle of Mission Command). This method is more empowering, requires less managerial overhead and is far more robust -- solutions may come and go based on the situation in the field, but the objectives stay the same.

Goals embody this principle -- they describe the company strategy in terms of desired outcomes: where we want to be, by when, and how will we know that we got there. Whenever anyone the company is wordering "why are we doing this project?" -- a goal should give the answer. In Google they use **Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)** every quater. For example:

- **O: Move into profitability by EOY 2018**
	- KR: At least 5 new enterprise customers
	- KR: Reduce churn to 2.4% or less
- **O: Allow customers to use the product on mobile**
	- KR: Mobile MAUs > 20k
	- KR: >25% of key actions performed on mobile
- **O: Enjoyable, bug free user experience**
	- KR: Fix top 10 customers - reported issues
	- KR: Reduce customer support response time by 40%

## Ideas
> "If you want to have good ideas, you must have many ideas. Most of them will be wrong, and what you have to learn is which ones to throw away" -- Linus Pauling

Ideas describe hypothetical ways to achive the goals. The keyword here is *hypothetical* -- there can be many ideas how to archive a given objective, but at most 1 in 3 ideas will deliver a positive result (often the ratio is far worse). The ideas of experienced leaders, product managers and designers don't have a better sucess ratio than the average.

For these reasons, in GIST, we never kill ideas upfront or put them into a prioritization deathmatch, favor management ideas, or choose the ideas that are most hyped/pitched/politicised. Instead, we:

- Collect all ideas in an *idea Bank*, commonly a spreadsheet or database -- all ideas are welcome and the bank can hold hundreds of ideas indefinitely.
- Prioritise using _evidence_
- Put as many ideas a possible to the test in order of priority -- that's the job of Step-projects.

## Steps-projects
> "Think Big but Start Small" -- Google's 8 pillars of innovation

It's tempting to pick a promising idea, turn it into a 12 months project and start execting. This a common mistake and very costly one. Spending quaters, or even years on a yet unproven idea is likely throwing good money in the bin because most ideas aren't worth the investment.

Instead, we break the bigger project behind the idea into small step-projects, each no more than 10 weeks long, and execute them one at a time. For example: mockup -> prototype -> MVP -> dogfood -> beta -> launch.

Each step-project is actually an experiment that tests the idea. In a successful progression we will put in each step-project a somewhat more complete version of the idea in front of more users for a longer duration of time. The end product is usually profoundly better than the one we imagined initially.

Because step-projects are so small we avoid all the nasty side effects of long projects and we are able to test many more ideas in parallel with lower investment and with quicker learning. Ideas that don’t work get dropped early, ideas that work get more investment. No need for pitching or politics. The ability come up with an idea and see it come to life and tested in a matter of weeks is incredibly liberating and enjoyable for everyone involved. You’ll never want to do another long death-march project again.

## Tasks
Finally, each step-project is broken down to bite-size activities which we call here Tasks. This part of the system is well covered by agile planning tools, kanban boards and other modern dev project management techniques. Nothing needs to change at this level. The only difference is that the layers above are now agile as well and ready for change.

## The planning cycle
Planning with GIST is multi-tiered and interactive:

- **Goals** are typically set for an horizon of one or more years — this is where we want to encourage long-term thinking. They are defined at the beginning of the year and evaluated and adjusted every quarter  --  we don’t want to pursue stale goals.
- **Ideas** are constantly collected and prioritized. We never stop looking for new ideas.
- **Step-projects** are defined at the beginning of the quarter. The team picks the goals and ideas it wishes to pursue this quarter, and defines step-projects accordingly. The quarterly step-project list (typically stored in a spreadsheet or database tool) is evaluated and reprioritized every 1–2 weeks, in sync with task iterations planing.
- **Tasks** are planned in 1–2 week iterations in per the teams’ preferred dev method, for example Scrum sprint planning, and adjusted daily.

## Do you still need roadmaps?
Roadmaps are usually used for these purposes:
- Work planning
- Internal communication
- External communication

### References:
[Itamar Gilar](https://hackernoon.com/why-i-stopped-using-product-roadmaps-and-switched-to-gist-planning-3b7f54e271d1)
[Why Impact/Effort Priotisation doesn't work](https://medium.com/@itamargilad/why-impact-effort-prioritization-doesnt-work-57d141fafc2c)
[The mechanisms of growth - video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ouiRyVfu3cI)